jan lili meli suwi pi pilin anpa ale pi pali ike 

anpa sewi ale suwi insa

Asasi

suli ona tenpo en mama ala

Sotema



jan Asasi en jan Sotema 




jan Asasi en jan Sotema la tawa suli li pini. ona tu li kama lon tomo lape mani. 

tawa jan Asasi la ijo ale ni li sin. tenpo ala la ona li lape lon tomo lape mani pona sama ni. lukin ona li alasa e ijo sin ale lon poka ante tomo. tomo li suli mute a! 

jan Sotema li tawa e poki suli tu. luka li jo e poki suli leko pi sike tawa. poki lili ante li awen lon sijelo li jo e ijo mani e len ale pi jan Asasi. 

poki lili pi jan Asasi li jo e ijo tu taso: len lipu pi tenpo lape en sitelen len soweli pi tenpo lape. lape... jan Sotema en jan Asasi li tawa suli. ona li wile e supa lape. 

ona tu li tawa supa pi jan pali. jan Sotema li open e toki. jan pali li mije li suli. taso jan Asasi li ken ala lukin pona tan ni: supa pali li suli. taso jan Asasi li lili. 

ken la jan pali li pana e ijo. (awen la jan Asasi li ken ala lukin pona). jan pali li toki: "o tawa sewi tawa supa nanpa tu tu. poki pi tawa sewi li lon poka ni." ona li pana e sona. 

seme la poki pi tawa sewi li lon weka ni a? seme la tomo li suli mute? jan Asasi en jan Sotema li tawa mute li kama lon insa pi poki tawa. sinpin pi poki tawa la jan Asasi li ken lukin e jan Asasi. jan Asasi nanpa wan li musi nasa e uta e lukin e luka la jan Asasi nanpa tu li pali sama. 

lon supa nanpa tu tu la tomo nanpa mute luka luka luka li suli a. jan Asasi li lukin e tomo suli e supa lape suli li pilin wawa.

"o tawa noka ala lon sewi pi supa lape a!" jan Sotema li toki.
"taso mi waso a!" jan Asasi li awen tawa musi. 

jan Sotema li wile ala utala mute. ona li lukin e tomo li open e poki ale. jan Asasi li weka tan supa lape li wile lukin lon poka. ona tu li lukin e poki pi telo nasa. (jan Asasi o moku ala e telo ni). ona li lukin e tomo jaki e tomo poki namako. ona li lukin e ilo seli len pi weka nena e supa pali pi ilo seli ni e ko ante mute pi jaki ala sijelo e len pi weka telo e len pi linja lawa pi weka telo e ijo ante ale a. 

pini la jan Sotema li kama lon supa lape. wawa ale li weka tan sijelo ona. suno suli ma li kama tawa anpa la kule jelo suwi li tan lupa lukin tomo. taso jan Asasi o moku. 

jan Sotema li toki, "sina wile moku e seme, jan Asa o?" (tenpo pini la mama pi jan Asasi li kepeken nimi lili 'Asa'). 

jan Asasi li wile moku e ni: lipu kasi laso mute li lon ko walo kala namako. jan Sotema li toki tawa ilo toki pi tomo lape la jan pali pi len pona a li kama kepeken tenpo lili. kepeken luka tu la jan pali li tawa e supa suli pi sike tawa tu tu. len walo li len e supa. poki sike kiwen li lon len. lon poka pi poki sike kiwen la ilo moku kiwen li lon. 

jan pali li pana e supa tawa sinpin pi jan Asasi. jan Asasi li lukin e jan Asasi nanpa tu lon selo pi poki sike. poki li sike la sijelo pi jan Asasi nanpa tu li nasa musi li sama ala sijelo pi jan Asasi lon. 

kepeken luka wan la jan pali li tawa sewi e poki sike kiwen kepeken nasin musi. jan Asasi nanpa tu li weka. moku li lon. jan pali li anpa lili e lawa ona tawa jan Asasi li toki: "tenpo moku pona o tawa sina."

ale li mani mute lukin. jan Asasi li toki. "sina pona."

sinpin pi jan pali li pilin pona. jan pali li lukin e jan Sotema li anpa lili e lawa tawa ona kin li weka tan tomo. jan Asasi li moku. 

"moku li pona seme?" jan Sotema li toki. 
"moku li pona mute. sina pona." jan Asasi li toki. 

suno li kama weka. jan Sotema li toki e open pi tenpo lape la jan Asasi li open e poki lili ona li kama e jan mije Popin e jan meli Popan. 

a...

luka pi jan Asasi li jo olin wawa e jan mije Popin e jan meli Popan. ona li toki suwi tawa ona tu kepeken kalama lili. 'mi weka e sina tan poki. o pilin ike ala.' 

jan Asasi en jan Popin en jan Popan li kama lon supa lape. 

jan Sotema li pini e suno pi jan Asasi li lukin e lipu kepeken suno lili. ona li kute e kama lape pi jan Asa la jan Sotema li pini e suno lili li kama lape kin. 







Page 1
 
Madeline and Sally check in to the Hotel Benjamin on Tuesday afternoon. Madeline (or “Maddy,” as her parents called her) has never stayed in such a nice hotel before, so she’s excited. She walks into the big lobby with Sally, who has a suitcase on wheels and a purse across her shoulder. Maddy’s clothes are all in Sally’s bag, but Maddy carries her backback with her blanket curled up in the bottom, and her bear’s head poking out of the top of the bag watches behind Maddy as she walks. Sally and Maddy go up to the big desk where the man waits for them. Sally talks to the man over the desk, but Maddy can hardly see: the rim of the marble counter meets her right in the forehead. The man (Sally calls him the “receptionist,” which Maddy finds difficult to say: “recepyoniss”; Sally laughs) hands Sally a key and points across the lobby to the elevators. Sally and Maddy cross a sea of carpet to reach the golden doors. Maddy makes faces at her reflection.

Sally and Maddy’s room is enormous: Maddy jumps on the bed (“get down from there!” cries Sally, but she remembers her youth and lets Maddy enjoy herself a little longer), opens the minibar (“now don’t drink any of that…”), looks in the bathroom and every cupboard (“what’d you find?”, and Maddy shows Sally the iron and ironing board, the safe in the closet, and the soaps and towels and shower caps), and falls into bed, exhausted. The sun is just beginning to set, and the windows are turning gold.

Sally says, “what do you want for dinner?” and Maddy asks for a ceasar salad. Sally talks into a telephone on the nightstand, and soon a man arrives with a cart on wheels. He rolls the whole cart into the room and parks it in front of Maddy. There’s a white table cloth and silver utensils, and the silver dome in the middle makes Maddy’s reflection look tiny and distant. The man whisks the dome out from under Maddy’s nose and swirls it behind him with a flourish of the wrist. “Your dinner, madam,” and he bows slightly. Madeline nods her head in thanks. The man straightens, winks at Maddy, nods to Sally, and flies out of the room; his jacket tails flutter behind him as he leaves. Maddy eats dinner.

“How was it?” Sally asks.

“Very good, thank you,” Maddy replies.

The sun is red and the light in the room is dimming. Sally says it’s time for bed and she and Maddy begin to unpack. Maddy opens her backpack: Mr. Poppins and Ms. Bubble seem to breathe easier once released from their confinement. Maddy and her blanket and her stuffed bear snuggle into the big bed and sink among the stacked cushions. Sally turns teoff the light next to Maddy’s bed and reads until Maddy’s breathing is deep and slow.



open pi suno kama la jan Sotema en jan Asasi li wile tawa tomo lukin pi sitelen musi mute. suno pini la jan mije Popin en jan meli Popan li pilin ike lon poki lon tenpo suli. ona tu o lape. ni la jan Asasi li pana e jan Popin e jan Popan tawa supa lape li toki e ni: "mi tawa. o lape pona."

tenpo pini la jan Asa li tawa tomo mute pi sitelen musi lon poka mama. mama meli la sitelen pi kasi kule li pona. mama mije la sitelen pi ma kasi suli li pona. mama la nasin pona li ni: o lipu e nimi ale pi sitelen ni: ona li pona tawa sina. 

jan Sotema en jan Asasi li kama lon tomo musi la jan Asasi li pilin pona. sitelen pi sijelo jan li pona tawa jan Asasi tan ni: sitelen pi sijelo jan li ken ala sama ale tawa jan lon. sitelen ale pi sijelo jan li nasa musi lon nasin ante mute. lon lipu ona la jan Asasi li toki sitelen e nimi mute pi sitelen jan pona. jan Sotema li toki e ni: ona tu li kama sin lon tomo lape la ona li ken alasa e nimi pi sitelen ale ni kepeken ilo wawa. 

ale pi tenpo suno la ona li lon tomo musi. tomo musi li pini la jan Sotema en jan Asasi li wile moku li tawa sin tawa tomo lape. ona li kama lon tomo la jan Sotema li lukin e ni: jan pali li kama li weka e jaki li pona e tomo. jan Asasi li lukin e supa lape li lukin ala e jan mije Popin e jan meli Popan. ona li lon anpa len anu seme? jan Asasi li alasa. ona li lon ala. 

"ken la ona li lon anpa pi supa lape?" jan Sotema li toki. jan Asasi li anpa e sijelo li alasa wawa. lon ala. 

"ken la ona li lon supa lape mi..." jan Sotema li lukin lon anpa len li lukin lon anpa supa. lon la ala. 

jan Asasi li alasa lon anpa pi supa lape tu lon insa pi poki lili ale pi tomo suli lon insa pi poki lili ale pi tomo jaki lon poki namako lon poki kiwen awen pi ijo mani lon anpa pi supa pali pi ilo seli len lon poki pi telo nasa la jan Sotema li toki e ni: "mi sona ala e ni: ona li lon seme!"

jan Asasi la pilin monsuta li awen kama open. jan Popin en jan Popan li ken ala weka taso. ona o lon ijo. sona pi tenpo pini li kama sin: jan Asa li lili la kulupu mama li awen lon tomo lape mani lon poka pi mama mama. pakala la kulupu mama li tawa weka la ona li weka e jan Popin e jan Popan. taso ona li kama sin tan ni: mama li toki mute tawa jan pali kepeken ilo. jan pali li alasa li jo li pana tawa poki li pana wawa e poki kepeken nasin pana pi tenpo lili tawa tomo ona. 

jan Sotema li toki. "mi o alasa e sona tan jan pali a." ona li jo e luka pi jan Asasi li kama e ona lon weka tomo. lon monsi pi jan Asasi la lupa tomo li kama pini kepeken tenpo suli. jan Asasi li tawa sike li lukin e supa lape li lukin e supa lape li kama ken ala lukin e supa lape li lukin ala e supa lape. lupa li pini la nena lili pi insa lupa li tawa anpa li pana e mu kalama lili. pini wawa. nasin ijo wan pi jan Asasi li pini wawa. sijelo pi jan Asasi li pilin e mu. lukin li pilin nasa sijelo. poki kon li pilin nasa sijelo. pilin ona a li pilin nasa sijelo. 

jan Sotema en jan Asasi li tawa anpa li kama lon supa pi jan pali. jan pali pi suno ni li sama jan pali pi suno pini. ona li mije li suli. jan Asasi li kama lon weka lili pi supa pali. ni la jan pali li ken lukin pona e ona. 

jan Sotema li toki. "o toki tawa jan pali e ni: seme li kama."

"sitelen soweli lape mi en len lape mi. ona li lon supa lape. tenpo ni la ona li lon ala."

jan pali li toki. "a, ike. tomo sina li nanpa seme?" jan Asasi li sona ala li lukin e jan Sotema. "supa nanpa tu tu la tomo nanpa mute luka luka luka."

"pona. o toki mute e ni: ijo li seme lukin."

jan Sotema li lukin e jan Asasi. "o toki e jan mije Popin e jan meli Popan tawa ona." a... jan Asasi li pilin nasa tan toki ni. nimi pi jan mije Popin en nimi pi jan meli Popan la jan Sotema o toki suli ala e ni tawa jan ante. nasin nimi li nasin pi jan lili a. jan ante o sona ala e ni: jan Asa li kepeken nasin ni a... ike...

"ijo tu li lon. sitelen soweli la selo ona li pimeja loje jelo li suwi tawa luka li suwi tawa lukin."

"ona li soweli seme?"

tenpo lili la jan Asasi li toki ala. ona li wile ala toki mute e jan mije Popin. taso jan Sotema li lukin e ona la jan Asasi li kama awen toki. jan pali o ken sona. "ona li jo e lawa sike e kute tu lili sike e luka tu e noka tu. soweli pi sitelen ala li lon ma kasi mute pi ma Mewika li suli li moku e soweli ante. jan mute li pilin monsuta tawa soweli ni. taso soweli mi li monsuta ala li suwi."

"ijo nanpa tu li lon anu seme?"

"len lape mi. ona li len pi supa lape li. jan pali li wan e len lipu leko mute pi kule ante. loje en laso telo en laso jelo li lon. leko pi mute lili li jo e sitelen soweli."

"a. sina pana e ona lon seme lon tenpo seme?"

"open pi suno ni la mi pana e ona tawa supa lape li weka e tomo li tawa lon ma. tenpo ni la mi kama sin la mi lukin e ni: ona li lon ala."

"sona. o awen lili." jan pali mije suli li kepeken ilo sona. jan Asasi li awen. 

tenpo li weka. jan pali li toki. "mi alasa e sitelen soweli weka e len lape weka. taso ike la mi lukin ala e ona. ni li kama ante lon tenpo kama la mi lukin li toki tawa sina. mi pilin ike tan ni: mi ken ala pona e pakala lon tenpo ni. pona o tawa sina. o sona: kulupu mi li awen alasa." 

"sina pona tan alasa." jan Sotema li toki. (jan Asa li toki ala li lukin e anpa.) luka pi jan Sotema li tawa e jan Asasi tawa tomo moku pi tomo lape. "sina wile ala wile moku lon ni, jan Asa o?" 

jan Asasi li lukin e insa pi tomo moku. tomo moku mani a. kiwen jelo suno musi mute li lon sewi tomo li pona mute lukin. tenpo moku nanpa tu wan li kama open la ken suli la jan mute li kama lon tomo moku. taso tenpo ni la jan mute ala li lon. jan ale moku pi tenpo ni li kulupu pi jan lili pi mama tu. 

jan pali meli li kama toki tawa jan Sotema. lukin la jan Sotema en jan pali ni li suli tenpo sama. "sina tu li wile moku anu seme?" jan Sotema li toki e wile la jan pali li kama e ona tawa supa lili pi jan tu. 

nasin pi supa ni lili tawa supa moku pi jan Asasi lon tenpo pimeja nanpa wan. len walo li lon supa. ilo moku mute pi mani lukin li lon len walo ni. jan Asasi li musi kepeken ilo palisa pi moku telo. ilo li kiwen la jan Asasi li ken lukin e jan Asasi nanpa tu lon ona. jan Asasi li lukin e sinpin sike jo pi ilo moku la jan Asasi nanpa tu li nasa lukin. poka sewi li lon poka anpa. poka anpa li lon sewi. kin la ona li lon weka mute... jan Asasi li tawa sike e ilo moku. jan Asasi li lukin e monsi anpa pi ilo moku la jan Asasi nanpa tu li awen nasa lukin sama ni: ona li lon weka mute. taso poka sewi en poka anpa li ante nasa ala. jan Asasi li tawa sike e ilo moku li tawa sike e ilo moku. jan Asasi nanpa tu li tawa nasa mute sike lon weka mute. ale li nasa lon tenpo ni. 

pini pi tenpo moku la jan Sotema li kama e jan Asasi tawa supa lape. ona li nasin pona e len lape pi jan Asasi. luka pi jan Asasi li wile jo e jan mije Popin e jan meli Popan. taso ona li ken ala. lupa nasa li lon. luka o nasin seme? ona li awen lon sijelo la pilin li sama ni: nena ike pi wile ala li lon. sama la jan lawa meli li pilin e kili lili ike lon anpa pi supa lape. 

nasin pona o ni: jan meli Popan o jo e jan mije Popin la luka pi jan Asa li jo e ona tu li pilin e ko suwi ona. jan Asa o ken pana e sinpin lawa tawa insa pi wan ni. jan Asa o ken pilin e kon suwi kepeken nena. 

taso kon suwi ala li lon tenpo ni. lupa suli taso li lon. jan Asa li ken pilin e lupa. ona li ken pilin e lupa lon insa pi uta ona. ona li ken pilin e lupa lon insa pi sijelo ona. ona li ken pilin e lupa lon insa pi pilin ona. tenpo suli la ona li lape ala. ona li kute e kama lape pi jan Sotema la awen la jan Asa li lape ala. 


Page 2

The next day, Sally and Maddy go to a museum. Maddy leaves Mr. Poppins and Ms. Bubbles in bed when she gets up and doesn’t think anything more about it. Maddy loves going to the museum: the people in the paintings are funny-shaped, like her face in the silver dome over the salad last night. She remembers going to museums with her parents, who took her through and pointed out their favorites: her mom always loved still lifes of flowers; her father, landscapes. Remembering their advice, Maddy takes our her notebook and copies down the names of her favorite paintings from the museum; Sally promises to help Maddy look the artists up when they get back to the hotel for dinner. Before going to the dining room, they stop by their room, which has been cleaned and the beds made. Mr. Poppins and Ms. Bubbles aren’t there. Maddy pulls back the bed covers to look for them. They aren’t there.

“Maybe they’ve fallen under the bed?” Sally offers, and Maddy gets down on her hands and knees to look. They aren’t there.

“Maybe in my bed?” and Sally pulls back the covers, but they aren’t there either.

“I don’t know what happened to them!” Sally says at last, after Maddy has looked under both beds, in all the cupboards, in the bathroom, in the safe, under the ironing board, and in the minibar. “They’re just gone!”

Maddy supresses panic: they can’t be gone!, she thinks, there must be some mistake. Maddy remembers when she left Mr. Poppins and Ms. Bubbles at the hotel by her grandparents’, and how her parents convinced the staff to look for them and send them back to her express with a note saying “please take care of this bear and blanket.”

“Why don’t we go down to the front desk and ask?” Sally suggests. She takes Maddy by the hand and steers her into the hallway. The door to their room is heavy and closes slowly behind them. It glides across the carpet, and Maddy’s view back into the room narrows to a tiny slit that shuts — click. The sound echos up Maddy’s spine. Something in her life has permanently changed. Her eyes are heavy and full; her chest is weirdly empty; her heartbeat echoes in her ribcage.

Maddy and Sally step out of the elevator on the main floor and walk over to the big front desk. The same man who was behind the desk the day before is there. Maddy stands back from the counter, so that he can see her as she speaks.

“Why don’t you tell the man what happened?” Sally prompts Maddy.

“I left my stuffed bear and blanket in our room, and now they’re gone.”

“I see. And what is your room number?” the man asks, and Maddy doesn’t know. She looks silently up at Sally, who says,

“Four thirty-five.”

“Very good. And could you describe the lost object in more detail?”

Sally looks down at Maddy, who blushes. “Go ahead and tell the man about Mr. Poppins and Ms. Bubbles,” Sally says to Maddy. Hearing their names spoken in the big lobby embarasses Maddy. She has never felt so young, so much like a child.

“There’s two of them. One is a bear, fuzzy, brown, and handsome; the other is a blanket, quilted, red, blue, and green, with animals on it.” Maddy falls quiet: she feels that she should not tell the man too much about her bear and blanket, even though his face remains still and calm.

“I see. When did you see them last?”

“I left them in the bed this morning, and when we came back just a few minutes ago, they were gone.”

“Ah, let me see here…” The man clacks at the computer terminal on the desk in front of him and peers at the results. “I don’t see any reports of a lost item fitting the description you gave, but I’ll let you know if anything pops up. I’m sorry for the loss; we’ll do everything we can to help.”

“Thank you very much,” Sally says (Maddy looks down at her feet in silence) and leads Maddy by the hand across the lobby to the hotel’s restaurant. “Do you want to eat down here tonight, Maddy?” Sally asks. Maddy peers into the large room, with golden ceiling and crystal chandeliers. It is still too early for the main dinner crowd, but a few tables have people Maddy’s age with their parents.

A woman in a black dress and white sneakers, about Sally’s age, approaches them and asks, “how can I help you?” Sally asks for a table for two, and the woman walks them over to a table with menus under her arm.

“Here you go, my dears,” she says, delivering them to a table with glasses and silverware all laid out on white cloth. Maddy and Sally sit, and Maddy makes faces at herself in the shiny silver spoon: she looks at herself, distant and upside down, in the concave side; she flips the spoon and sees herself, still distant, but right side up. She twirls the spoon around and imagines she’s tumbling head over heels.

After dinner, Sally tucks Maddy into bed, and Maddy reaches out to hug Mr. Poppins and Ms. Bubbles. But they aren’t there. Maddy’s arms are empty. They rest against her chest, awkwardly bony, deflated: Mr. Poppins should be there, with Ms. Bubbles around him. Maddy should bury her face in Mr. Poppins’ fuzz and rub Ms. Bubbles edges between her fingers. She should be able to smell them, but all she can smell is the clean sheets. Her chest is hollow, and her throat dry. Maddy stays awake a long time, long after Sally goes to bed and her breathing becomes smooth and regular.




suno li seli e sinpin pi jan Asasi li weka e ona tan lape. jan Sotema li lape ala li pali e ijo ante. "mi weka ala e sina tan lape lon tenpo pona tan ni: lukin la wile lape sina li suli. suno ni la sina wile ala wile tawa ma soweli?" jan Asasi li sona e ni: ona en jan Sotema li weka tan tomo lape lon tenpo suno kama. tenpo lili taso li awen tawa ni: ona li ken alasa e jan mije Popin e jan meli Popan. o seme? jan Asasi li sona ala. ona en jan Sotema li kama supa nanpa wan pi tomo lape suli. jan pali ala li lon. ona en jan Sotema li tawa weka pi tomo lape kepeken lupa suli sinpin pi tawa sike. sinpin ni li tan kiwen lukin. lon sinpin la jan Asasi li lukin e jan Asasi nanpa tu. ona li sama lukin tawa kon pi jan moli. ona tu li tawa ma soweli. 

ona en jan Sotema li kama sin tan ma soweli la pilin pi jan Asasi li kama pona sin lili. lon ma soweli la jan Asasi en jan Sotema li moku lon tomo moku ni: jan Asa en mama ona li moku lon tenpo mute. tomo moku ni la nasin ni li lon tenpo ale: "suwi wan taso!" la mama meli li esun e ko lete suwi laso pi kiwen suwi lili pimeja. "ni li moku pi pona nanpa wan lon ale pi ma tomo!" la mama mije li esun e lipu kasi laso mute pi ko walo kala namako. 

tenpo pi ma soweli la, jan Asasi li moku e ko lete suwi sama. jan Asasi en jan Sotema li lon sin lon tomo lape la jan Asasi li awen ken pilin e kule pi ko lete suwi laso ni lon uta. jan Asasi li lukin. jan pali sama pi tenpo suno pini li lon. jan Asasi li tawa ona li kama toki. taso jan pali mije suli li lukin e jan Asasi la jan Asasi li kama pilin e ni: jan pali li awen ala sona e ona. 

"toki. sina kama ala kama sona e ni: ijo mi pi tenpo lape li lon seme?" jan Asasi li toki tawa jan pali.

"ijo sina seme la seme?" jan pali li toki pi sona ala a. 

"ijo mi pi tenpo lape la sitelen soweli pimeja en len pi supa lape la seme a!" jan pali li lukin sin e jan Asasi. tenpo la sona li kama sin. 

"a, tenpo ni la mi sona. tenpo suno pini la sina alasa. ike la mi awen sona ala. sona sin li kama la mi toki tawa sina." jan pali li toki kepeken pilin mute ala. 

jan Asasi li lukin sin e jan pali li toki insa. ken suli la jan pali ni li wile ala ike. taso lukin la jan pali li wile ala kepeken wawa pali mute lon alasa ni. ken suli la jan pali li pilin ala e ni: pakala suli ni li pakala suli. jan Asasi li alasa sin kepeken nasin ante:

"ilo sina li sona ala la nasin ante pi kama sona li lon ala lon?"

"ken la..." jan pali li toki insa. "sina ken toki tawa jan pi weka jaki. open pi tenpo suno la ijo li lon supa lape. insa pi tenpo suno la ijo li weka. ijo sina li weka la tenpo sama la jan pi weka jaki li pali." 

"jan pi weka jaki li lon seme?" jan Asasi li toki.

jan pali li lukin e ilo tenpo. "tenpo ni la ona li pali. sina wile la sina ken alasa e ona. ona li tawa e ilo ale pi weka jaki kepeken poki tawa suli leko. sina lukin e poki ni lon poka pi tomo lape la ken suli la jan pi weka jaki li pali lon insa." jan Asasi li pini e toki kepeken nasin pona li tawa poka pi jan Sotema. ona tu li tawa sewi tawa supa nanpa tu tu. 

jan Asasi li kama lukin e ijo pi alasa ona. poki tawa leko suli li lon poka pi tomo lape ante. lupa tomo li open. poki li jo e poki pi len jaki mute e ilo mute pi jaki mute e poki lili mute telo pi kule nasa ante mute. tan insa tomo la jan Asasi li kute e mu suli ni: ilo li moku e jaki tan supa anpa kepeken kon wawa. jan Sotema li wile tawa tomo lape. taso jan Asasi li awen lon lupa pi tomo mu. jan Sotema li tawa poka pi tomo lape ona li lukin e pali pi jan Asasi tan weka.

jan Asasi li sona e jan pali ni pi weka jaki. tenpo pimeja pini la jan ni li pali lon tomo moku. ona li meli li suli tenpo sama jan Sotema. jan pali li lukin e jan Asasi la ona li pini e ilo mu li kama tawa lupa tomo.   



PAGE 3 

The sun shines on Maddy’s face and wakes her. Sally is already up and dressed: “you seemed tired, so I decided to let you sleep in some. Want to go to the zoo today?” Today is Thursday, and Maddy and Sally are staying in the hotel until Friday. Mr. Poppins and Ms. Bubbles are still missing, and Maddy doesn’t know what to do about it. As she and Sally walk through the hotel’s lobby, Maddy looks at the counter: nobody there. She and Sally cross the lobby and leave through the big revolving door. Maddy watches her reflection in the glass: she’s aalmostlmost transparent, like a ghost floating over the world beyond the window. Then they’re out of the door and on the bright street with the noises.

As she and Sally return from the Zoo, Maddy’s head feels clearer. She and Sally ate lunch at a restaurant Maddy often went to with her parents, near the zoo overlooking the wide lawn sloping down to the pond. Maddy’s mother loved to order a scoop of mint chocolate chip ice cream for dessert (“just one scoop!”), and her father always had the ceasar salad (“best in town!”). Sally bought Maddy a cone of mint chip ice cream on the way back from the hotel, and Maddy’s breath is still cool when she enters the lobby again. Seeing the receptionist back at his post, Maddy steps over to the front desk. The receptionist is the same man from before, but he doesn’t show any sign that he recognizes Maddy.

“Excuse me sir, have you located my comfort objects?” Maddy asks the man.your

“Have I located your what?” The man seems confused.

“My comfort objects: the bear and blanket!” The man squints down at Maddy for a moment, then his face clears.

“Ah yes, now I remember. No, I’m sorry madam: we haven’t found anything yet. I will let you know the moment anything appears.” He speaks gently, but without any great emotion. Maddy sees nothing in the man’s face to suggest that the man is terribly upset. Maddy can tell that he intends her no harm by the openness of his expression, but by its mildness she knows that he is not deeply invested in helping her. Maddy takes the initiative:

“Is there anyone else who might know anything?”

“Well,” the man thinks for a moment, “the cleaners might have seen something. You said that you left them in the bed in the morning and they were gone in the afternoon? Normally, the cleaners come by in that time.”

“Where can I find the cleaners?” Maddy asks.

The man checks his wristwatch. “They’re cleaning the rooms as we speak. If you go through the hallways, you’ll be able to find them. They move with a cart of cleaning supplies; if you see the cart, you know the cleaners can’t be far off.” Maddy thanks the man and runs to meet Sally at the elevators.

As they step off on their floor, Maddy sees the cleaner’s cart parked by the side of the hallway outside the open door to a room. It has a big basket filled with dirty sheets from the rooms, and bottles of all shapes and descriptions. Through the open door, Maddy can hear a vacuum cleaner running. As Sally continues to their room, Maddy strays behind to talk to the cleaners. She looks in the open door and sees the same woman from the restaurant last night vacuuming. Maddy waits for her to turn the loud machine off, and Sally waits in front of the door down the hall. The woman switches off the vacuum and wheels it towards the door, when she sees Maddy.

“Hello!”, her face is bright.

“Hello,” says Maddy, “I lost something, and…”, she hesitates, unsure, “I wanted to know whether you’ve seen anything.”

“What did you lose?”

Maddy thinks about how to answer this question. This woman seems warm enough, but Maddy remembers the way the man at the desk responed: polite yet unmoved. Maddy decides to say, “my stuffed animals. I left them in bed yesterday morning, and by the afternoon they were gone.”

“What’s your room number?” The woman’s brows drift closer together, her lips purse slightly, and her eyes focus closer on Maddy’s face.

“Four thirty-five.” Maddy looks down the hallway towards Sally, who still stands in the doorway. The woman looks down the hall, then back at Maddy.

“No, I haven’t seen anything. I’ll ask the rest of the staff if anything’s turned up. I’m in the restaurant again tonight — come down and see me. My name’s Meg. If you ask for me, they’ll know who to bring you.”

“I’m Maddy.” The younger girl holds out her hand, and the older girl shakes it. “Thank you for your help.”

“Not at all. Oh! and one more thing: do the stuffed animals have names?”

“Their names are Mr. Poppins and Ms. Bubbles. Mr. Poppins in a fuzzy brown bear, and Ms. Bubbles is a red, blue, and green quilt.”

“Alright,” says Meg, looking straight into Maddy’s eyes, “I’ll see what I can do.” Even though Meg is much taller than Maddy and doesn’t stoop down, Madde feels as though she and Meg are looking at one another from the same height. Maddy nods, thanks Meg again for her help, and continues down the hallway to her and Sally’s room.

Sally is holding the door open when Maddy reaches her. “Learn anything?” she asks. Her face is still.

“No, but Meg promised to look around. She says she hasn’t seen anything, though.”

“Too bad!” Sally’s response is honest, but her mood isn’t dampened. The two of them go into the hotel room, and Sally drops on her back into her newly-made bed. “It’s so hot! I may just take a nap for a while. If you promise not to leave the hotel, you can run around for a bit and do whatever you want. I’m beat.” Sallly kicks her shoes off and stretches her arms above her head. She rolls on to her side and is instantly asleep.

As Maddy opens the room door to leave, she turns to look back into the room. For an instant she sees Mr. Poppins and Ms. Bubbles in her bed, propped up politely on her pillow. But even as the tears come to her eyes the vision fades, and Maddy can only see a blur of color where the stuffed animals usually live, like an after-image from a bright light. She holds her ragged breath and crosses the threshold into the hallway.


PAGE 4

Looking to her right, Maddy can see Meg’s cart, now a room further along, and the elevators at the end of the hallway. Now is the time to take stock: what do I know of the situation?

Missing: One stuffed bear and one quilted blanket.

Description: The bear is fuzzy and brown, and the hair around his eyes is ragged. (Maddy remembers her mother cutting her hair. “Mr. Poppins needs a haircut, too!” Her mother trimmed the hair around his eyes. “Now hold still…”) The blanket is quilted in red, blue, and green, with patterns of animals: a lion, a walrus, a monkey. (Maddy sat with her father looking at the blanket and pointing: “What’s this one?” “That’s a zebra. They make a honk noise.” “No they don’t, daddy, that’s silly!”)

Last seen: On the window-side bed of room 435 in the Hotel Benjamin, at around 10 a.m. on Tuesday. By 2 p.m., they had disappeared.

As far as Maddy knows, only a few people have access to the room: Sally, whom she can’t suspect on principle; Meg, whom she doesn’t want to distrust; and potentially other employees of the hotel, whom Maddy hasn’t yet met. Of their own accord, Maddy’s suspicions land on the last group; at their head in her imagination is the receptionist.

Maddy knows that she must do something, and that time is running out: she and Sally leave on Friday, and today’s already Thursday. Maddy decides to speak to the receptionist again. She heads for the elevator, passing Meg and her cart along the way.

As the elevator bumps down to the first floor, Maddy looks at herself in the mirrored wall. The mirrors cover the upper half of the inside of the elevator and are about waist height to an adult. Maddy, though, can just see her face perched above the rim at the bottom of the mirror. She looks at her reflection and tries to look fierce, but she can’t conceal from herself how frightened she is. Hopefully nobody else will see the fear in her eyes.

There is no one behind the counter when Maddy reaches it. She has to stand back from the surface a little ways to peer over it, but as far as she can tell, nobody’s there. There is, however, a golden bell with flowers engraved on it; a little button on top swings a hammer to tap the side of the bell and call the receptionist. Maddy doesn’t want to draw any attention to herself, but after waiting a few minutes, she doesn’t see any way around it: she rings the bell, and its ding fills the lobby and lingers than Maddy would have thought possible before finally melting into the plush. The receptionist appears through a door behind the counter.

It’s not the same person she spoke to last time: this is a younger man, and Maddy recognizes him from the room service the first night she arrived at the hotel (how long ago that seems now!). He looks down at her kindly but without urgency. “How can I help you, madam?”

“Yes. I, uhh, I lost something in my room.”

“What did you lose?” Maddy hesitates — how should she describe Mr. Poppins and Ms. Bubbles? She decides that less is more:

“My stuffed animals.”

The man looks at her soberly.

“And when did you see them last?”

“Yesterday morning. I spoke to the other…”, here comes that big word again, and Maddy, with a tightened throat, chokes out “person at the desk, and he said he’d let me know if they’re found.”

“I see. Let me take a look for you.” The man stabs some buttons at his computer termial and examines the screen. “No, I don’t see a report here that it was turned in. It’s possible, though, that it got found today and hasn’t yet been filed in the system. If you wait here a minute, I’ll run back into the office and take a look.”

“Thank you very much,” says Maddy in her most dignified voice. The man nods slightly and steps back through the door behind the counter. While she waits, Maddy turns to survey the lobby. Its ceiling is high, and she tilts her head back to look at it. A giant chandelier is suspended in the air above her. Its crystals’ facets reflect the lights nestled among them on golden branches and cast shards of color across the ceiling.

The last time Maddy stayed in a hotel was when she went with her parents to visit her mother’s family. Maddy’s father said that they stayed in the hotel to give Grandma and Grandpa their privacy and winked at Maddy; Maddy’s mother rolled her eyes, but the corners of her mouth twitched upwards despite themselves. Maddy and her parents had rooms next to one another with a door between them. When Maddy’s parents thought she was asleep, they gently shut the door; Maddy heard the door close, but didn’t mind giving her parents their privacy. She knew that they would be there in the morning when she woke, and that she could run into their room with Mr. Poppins and Ms. Bubbles in her arms and jump in bed between them. She held her stuffed animals closer to her chest and felt Mr. Poppins’ fuzz against her cheek and worried Ms. Bubbles’ patches with her thumb till she fell asleep.

The receptionist’s footsteps behind her bring Maddy back to the present. The edges of the receptionist’s eyes are turned down, and his voice is soft when he says, “I’m afraid they aren’t there. I suggest that you check again tomorrow: the night porter might find them and turn them in tonight.” He pauses for an instant, as if not sure whether to continue speaking. Then he says, “I’m sorry for your loss,” looking straight into Maddy’s eyes over the gleaming stone counter and its wooden trim. She holds his eyes for a moment, and her chest begins to ache. Her eyes drop to the floor and she mutters, “thank you,” to her shoes. She walks back across the lobby to the elevator.


PGE 5

Maddy steps into the elevator and the doors close behind her, but she doesn’t press any buttons. Here she is, in this room of mirrors: three of the walls are mirrors, reflecting one another and creating the appearance of infinity in this tiny box. Maddy looks at herself in the mirrored wall and sees an endless hallway fading into the distance. She tilts her head this way and that, she whirls around to catch a glimpse of the end of forever, more and more frantically she tries to out-run her reflection. But she can never look past herself in the mirror: as the reflected hallway drifts off to infinity ahead and behind, her face is stuck to the mirror before her. She looks at her red eyes and swollen eyelids and smiling-grimace mouth.

Her mother wiped Maddy’s tears with a tissue from her purse, and her father pulled out a handkerchief to help. Whenever she skinned her knee, or the other kids made fun of her, or she broke something by mistake, her parents were there to help. There was nothing they couldn’t find, or fix, or bring back. And now they’re gone: I’ll never see Mr. Poppins or Ms. Bubbles again. Maddy doesn’t want to despair, but the situation is beginning to seem hopeless. She’ll see what Meg has to say — she almost forgot! A sudden hope springs in her, and she holds it close and shields it against the chaos around her. She presses the button; the door slides open; Maddy tears out of the elevator across the lobby to the restaurant.

Meg is just coming to the hostess’ stand when Maddy stops at her feet, breathless. “Hi Meg, any news?”

Meg smiles with her mouth, but her eyes don’t move. “I’m sorry dear, but I’ve asked everyone: nobody’s seen your stuffed animals anywhere. I’ll ask again before I leave tonight, but it seems like they’re gone. I’m…” and here Meg has to swallow once, twice, before continuing, “sorry.” Her voice breaks and she turns away from Maddy.

“That’s alright. Thank you for your help.” Maddy’s voice is soft, and she speaks without any change in pitch or quality, as though she didn’t understand the meaning of the words she was saying. Maddy turns and walks back to the elevator. Meg watches her go, and the receptionist; the color of the sunlight in the windows is going to gold and crimson. When Maddy gets to the elevator, she steps in and raises her hand to press the button for the fourth floor, but before finding home her finger stops and floats in space. Everything seems very close to her now, very present. She closes her eyes to block it all out; she bites her lip, harder, harder, to hold back the screams rising in her chest; she puts all her weight behind the tip of her right index finger and stabs the button.

The elevator arrives on the fourth floor, and Maddy walks down the hallway to her room and lets herself in. Sally is still asleep. Maddy’s bed is plain white, and empty of stuffed animals. The patch of color where she thought she saw them is gone. Mr. Poppins and Ms. Bubbles are gone. She won’t have time to look for them tomorrow: she and Sally have to get up early to get dressed and go down to the cemetery to say goodbye to their parents for the last time. 